---
Type: Page
Location: /work_experience
Title: My Work Experience
---

# Work Experience

I enjoy building useful tools to solve real problems, I love discovering
creative solutions, and I think continuous learning is a must.

## Principal Engineer, FireHydrant, 2019-2024

I was the second engineer hired at FireHydrant. The FireHydrant web application
has become mission-critical to many organizations such as Shipt, Avalara, Asana,
CircleCI, and many more. I was involved in the design and building of the
application from nearly day one. Of particular note, we built a high-volume,
low-latency on-call and paging system, robust incident management and
retrospective tools, and deep integrations with dozens of third-party service
providers such as Jira, Slack, MS Teams, Data Dog, and Zoom.

## Animoto, 2010-2019

### Director of Engineering, 2014-2019

I managed the backend, data engineering team, and analytics teams, as well as a
number of project-oriented cross-functional teams. I made hiring decisions,
participated in and guided design and design review, provided mentoring, and
advised executives on technical aspects of the business.

### Interim Head of Engineering, Animoto, 2017

I lead the Engineering team, comprising 25 engineers in frontend, backend, data
engineering, analytics, and rendering. While a search was conducted for a new
VP, I participated in all aspects of the product development lifecycle,
budgeting, strategic planning and HR-related tasks.

### Software & Lead Engineer, 2010-2014

During a period of high traffic growth, I grew and sustained a 6 to 7 member
engineering team. In addition to creating and maintaining Animoto's partner
integration API, during this time I executed Animoto's transition to a service
oriented architecture. My team refactored and rebuilt several legacy components
enabling higher development velocity and key user-facing features. My team was
also on the leading edge of many best practices: test driven development,
continuous integration, and data-driven agile processes.

## Instructor, New York Code and Design Academy, 2016-2018

I developed curriculum and performed classroom instruction, teaching adult
students the fundamentals of web development using Ruby and Javascript. 

## Software Engineer, TalentSpring, 2006-2008

I was the first engineer at TalentSpring where I built a highly scalable
web-based recruiting/resume service using Ruby on Rails and AJAX (cutting edge
at the time!). I coordinated several contract developers, two graphic designers,
and a copywriter through several major revisions. I also made purchasing
recommendations.

Some of my accomplishments include:

- I put in place a rapid development and release process that enables
  high-quality and timely deployment of new features and bug fixes.

- I developed and implemented key, "first-in-class" search functionality leading
  to highly streamlined user experience with very positive user feedback.

- I researched and implemented all aspects of custom email delivery with key
  goals being high delivery rates and customer satisfaction.

## Microsoft Research, Intern, 2005

I invented new digital painting tools by leveraging and extending texture
synthesis methods. These tools empower artists by giving them an easy method to
extend their palette of virtual paints and effects.

## University of Washington, 2003-2006

### Research Assistant

I pioneered new computational tools for artists and visual analytics including
"texture painting" tools and a system for generating cutaway visualizations of
complex thee-dimensional objects.

### Lead Teaching Assistent

I lectured and consulted on curricula for courses in Introductory Computer
Science, Programming Languages, and Software Engineering. I also served as a
teaching lead, coordinating up to 10 other TAs.


## Contract and Pro Bono

### Blist/Socrata

I developed the backend framework for modeling databases. This allowed users to
create their own database schemas using the frontend application. Later, Blist
would become Socrata, pivoting to become a powerful tool for integrating open
data.

### FrontSeat/Walk Score

With a small group of volunteer developers I wrote the early iPhone app "Walk
Score". This app helped promote neighborhood "walkability" by scoring a user's
location based on proximity of various amenities. The app itself integrated
location and mapping services, native and remote Walk Score calculation, and
several other web services. While the app is no loger available, [Walk Score now
lives on the web](walkscore.com)

### LearnVC

I built a first-of-its-kind tool to help start-up founders, employees, and
investors model and manage venture-backed investements. Using Java and the
Google Web Toolkit, I helped create the frontend and backend of a highly
responsive web application presenting highly complex financial transactions in
an intuitive manner.

# Education

- Master Science in Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington, 2006
- Bachelor of Arts in Computer Science with High Honors, Oberlin College, 2003

# Publications and Talks

## Interactive Cutaway Illustrations

A system for authoring and viewing interactive cutaway illustrations of complex 3D models using conventions of traditional scientific and technical illustration.

<blockqoute>
  <a href="http://vis.berkeley.edu/papers/cutaways/">Interactive Cutaway Illustrations of Complex 3D Models</a>
  <br/>
  <cite>
    <em>Wilmot Li, Lincoln Ritter, Maneesh Agrawala, Brian Curless, David Salesin</em>
    <br/>
    SIGGRAPH 2007, August 2007
  </cite>
</blockquote>

## Painting with Texture

An interactive texture painting system that allows the user to author digital
images by painting with a palette of input textures.

<blockqoute>
  <a href="http://grail.cs.washington.edu/projects/painting-with-texture/">Painting with Texture</a>
  <br/>
  <cite>
    <em>Lincoln Ritter, Wilmot Li, Maneesh Agrawala, Brian Curless, and David Salesin</em>
    <br/>
    17th Eurographics Symposium on Rendering, Nicosa, Cyprus, June 26th-28th, 2006
  </cite>
</blockquote>

## Driving Data Democracy @ Animoto, Looker Meetup, 2015

A presentation about how we built a culture of using data to make informed
decisions at Animoto.

[Driving Data Democracy @ Animoto](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WG4S8ZjPliQ)
